---
title: 'Qtile keys.py'
date: 2023-02-14
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-4/
tags:
  - Arch
  - Linux
---
## Problems with Window Manager Loading
---
As an Arch Linux user, I encountered issues with my system booting up due to a problem with my window manager qtile. After restarting my system, I was presented with a flickering cursor and could not log in.

To solve this problem, I accessed the safe mode terminal by following these steps:

1. Restarted my system and waited for the GRUB menu to appear.
2. Pressed the down arrow key to select the system entry and pressed the "e" key to edit it.
3. Added "*systemd.unit=rescue.target*" to the end of the line that starts with "linux".

``` 
linux /boot/vmliuz-liux root-0UUID=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx/xxxxxxx rw keyboard-layout=es systemd.unit=rescue.target loglevel=3 quiet
```
4. Pressed **Ctrl + x** to boot the system in safe mode.
5. Logged in as root in the terminal.
6. Once in safe mode terminal, I searched for the qtile configuration file that was causing the boot problem. I discovered that the file was located at */home/user/.config/qtile/config.py.*

To resolve the issue, I used the vim text editor to open the file and deleted the lines of code that were causing problems. I saved the changes and restarted the system. After restarting, I was able to log in normally and qtile loaded properly.

In summary, to solve booting issues in Arch Linux, one can access the safe mode terminal and edit the system entry in GRUB. From there, necessary changes can be made to configuration files to solve the problem.
